In this tutorial we will teach you how to play ConnectMaar.
The main objective of this game is to reduce the Emission bar at the top of the screen by expanding your grid over Alkmaar
Your Start point is the wind turbine
From there you can start building your power grid
On the left side of your screen you can see your inventory
In your inventory, you have items called Connectors. They are your main tool to make Alkmaar a greener and more sustainable place
Right now in your inventory you have a single connector, a double connector, and a triple connector
Connecting buildings to your renewable energy source reduces your emission bar on the left
To start a connection on the map tap a connector in your inventory then click on the tile next to a building in your grid
Follow the highlighted tiles by using the available connectors
Start your turn by pressing the start turn button.
The more connectors you used, the less efficient the connection will be
Your inventory will be refiled at the end of the turn
Would you look at that? Your emission bar has decreased by 2 points
1 connector = 3 points  \n 2 Connectors =  2 points  \n  3 Connectors = 1 point
Use the newly acquired connectors to make a connection to the house nearby using one 3 connector and a single connector
Your emission levels have further reduced by 2 points. This is because you used two connections instead of a single one
It looks like you built over special tiles and gained 3 special connectors
Special connectors are used to connect to special renewable resources in your grid such as heat pumps and solar panels. This will be useful in a bit.
The special connector you have can only be used to connect to a solar panel.
Special connectors like these can only be placed on one grid one at a time
Please use the special solar connector to connect to the solar panel ahead. But first, start your turn
You have now added a solar pannel to your connection. Congratulations! this will be useful later
There are two types of special connectors you can get from the random tiles scattered over the map and they can only be used for a specific power source
Heat connectors = Heat pumps, \n Solar connectors = Solar pannels
Let us use our newly acquired solar energy in our grid to power a key location in Alkmaar
First, please tap on the stadium at the bottom of the map
That was the info-Card for the AFAS Stadium. Each card has some fun facts about the location on the left-hand side.
The right-hand side shows what renewable building you need to have in your grid in order to claim this stadium and the rewards you get
For AFAS stadium to be connected to our grid you need a Solar panel in your grid. As a reward, you'll get an extra double connector next turn
Make a connection from a building in your grid to the stadium
The AFAS stadium is now using sustainable energy. Congratulations!
You are now supplying renewable energy to AFAS Stadium and would you look at that, the emission bar has decreased drastically because of that.
It looks like the second player has been making moves around Alkmaar while you were busy
Let's claim that house above shall we?
Start your turn and build as close as you can to that house
looks like you dont have enough connectors to reach the house. Let's use the last item in an inventory, this is called a node. Place it down at the end of the tile
Nodes allow you to end your connection and continue the next turn
But be careful you are only granted one per game and it comes as a cost
Other players can also use your node to end their connection midway as well and continue their turn, So you'll have to be strategic about their placement
Now place use your last connector to place over the node to end your turn
Connect to a house closest to you starting from your node to complete the tutorial
Congratulations on finsihing the tutorial! Continue making Alkmaar a greener place!